[NARRATOR] As Jirukoma departed
with his group of volunteers,
leaving Friedonia behind them,
his sister Komain took over
as chief of the settlement.
Those traveling could
not shake their longing
for home and swore
to take back their lands,
by force, if necessary.
While those who saw them
off kept their longing
for home in their hearts,
dreaming of restoring peace
to their nations while
remaining in a foreign land.
Though their parting
was a sad one,
at the same time,
it was their own decision.
I see you made it
to class on time.
Oh. Yes, I'm wearing glasses.
Not that I need them.
They put me in the teacher mood.
[AISHA]
Like a piece of armor?
Indeed.
For you see, this will be
your first of many lessons.
So welcome to day one of
the Fiancée's Bridal Course.
And your teacher will be
none other than myself,
the learned Excel Walter.
To be candid, I've been
hoping for an opportunity
like this for quite a while,
and when I heard His Majesty
say that he could
have children any time now,
I decided this would
be the perfect moment.
After all, it won't be
long before all of you
will be mothers.
As you are aware,
this Kingdom faced civil war.
Two generations ago
when the king died,
a dispute arose over
who would succeed
to the throne.
The royal family
was nearly wiped out.
Under His Majesty Souma's rule,
I trust nothing of the
sort will happen again.
However!
You mustn't be complacent!
If there is any breach
between king and queen
or between a queen and
one of the other queens,
someone will certainly
try taking advantage of it!
For the sake of the kingdom,
it is paramount for all
of you to establish
a harmonious
marital relationship!
Thus, why a bridal training
course is so crucial!
Uh, but why are you
the one teaching us,
Duchess Walter?
Well, I have lived for
over 500 years now.
And fallen in love with
a number of gentlemen,
none of whom I ever
parted with, mind you,
except through death.
Not to mention I have also
borne each of them children.
Now it's my responsibility
to teach you as queens--
no, rather as individual women,
how to remain in harmony
with the man that you love.
The art of being a wife,
everything from
understanding the male mind
to ensuring a smooth married
life via the performance of,
shall we say,
nighttime "services."
I've already had
His Majesty Souma
take an individual
course with me.
Now then, what does this mean
in both war and marriage?
Information is key if
you want to succeed.
"Know yourself and the enemy,
and you'll survive
a hundred battles".
As His Majesty is
always fond of saying.
He's right.
As long as you are aware
of how the other party
views you, you will always
know how to conduct yourself.
Still though, sometimes it
is good to be unpredictable
and shake things up if you
ever find yourself in a rut.
Know yourself, brides,
and the other party,
and your union
won't be endangered.
Like I said.
I met with the king,
along with a royal mage,
who secretly cast a confession
spell on His Majesty.
This notebook contains
the information I got
out of him during that session.
All right.
I will now read how
His Majesty Souma
sees each of his future
queens, one-by-one.
First, Roroa.
I'll start with his
estimation of you.
Me?! Why do I go first?
Oh, no particular reason.
I just thought I'd start
with the latest one
to meet His Majesty.
Yeah, that makes sense,
since I am the newest
addition to this group.
Plus, I suppose it's
better than going last.
[EXCEL] All right, so
according to His Majesty...
[EXCEL] Why don't we
talk about Roroa
and your feelings for her.
My feelings?
I like how cheerful
and friendly she can be.
She can be underhanded at times,
but that's just part
of her charm.
It's heartwarming how
she looks up to Liscia
and the others.
Also, she's a wiz when
it comes to finances.
I'm very grateful for her
and that she's my fiancée.
Th-This is so embarrassing.
And furthermore,
I asked His Majesty if
he had anything to add
and he said the following:
"Regarding the death
of her father,
I feel responsible for it."
[SOUMA]
I know we were at war.
But that hardly matters.
His blood is on my hands.
And while I know Roroa
says she was estranged
from Gaius,
I wonder, does she
really want to marry me?
That worries him sometimes.
What? Is he dense?
Darling, you big dummy!
I've already
considered all of that!
I'm getting married to
him because that's what
I really wanted to do,
so why's he thinkin'
about the past?
[crying]
There, there.
[ROROA]
Big sister Cia.
Don't you worry.
I'll give Souma a piece
of my mind later.
Roroa, there's a reason
he brought it up, you know.
That's because he loves you.
You're important to him.
You know that, don't you?
[ROROA]
Mm-hmm.
While on the one hand,
I'm upset he's oblivious
to the way I feel--
on the other, now that
I know just how highly
my darling thinks of me,
it makes me kinda happy.
[EXCEL]
As long as you're aware of that,
you should do just fine.
Next up, Juna.
Yes?
Pretty. Beautiful.
Her appearance.
But it's not only that.
Her heart, too.
She walks behind the rest,
but only because
she wants to see
the larger picture.
She really is the perfect woman.
I don't want to lose her.
His Majesty really
said that about me?
When I asked, "How do
you feel about Juna?"
he then replied
with the following:
"I consider myself lucky
whenever she lets me
dote on her, especially
since I'm a younger guy."
[JUNA]
Wait a minute.
I thought His Majesty and
myself were the same age.
[LISCIA]
No, she's right.
They're both 19.
It was only later
Souma realized,
in the world where he came from,
that one year lasts 365 days.
While in this one, it lasts 384,
so when you factor
in the difference,
you would actually be
at least a full year older
than His Majesty Souma.
I had no idea there
was such a gap between
our ages. But wait!
You're not saying that
His Majesty dislikes
older women, are you?
Not to worry.
He continued by
saying the following:
"In the world I come from
we have an old saying
that goes, 'Find a wife a
year older than you are.
And if necessary,
wear wire sandals."
[JUNA]
Oh, thank goodness.
[EXCEL]
Next up, Aisha.
Y-Yes ma'am?
[EXCEL] His Majesty Souma's
appraisal of you, Aisha, is...
[AISHA] Um, sorry, but why
are you stopping there?
[EXCEL]
Actually,
he called you "pet-like."
He said I'm what?!
[DOG barks]
I can see that.
Not you, too, Juna!
What am I, his lap dog?
Aisha is strong and noble,
a gorgeous warrior.
The fact is, she's the
most valiant fighter
in the kingdom and it's
reassuring to know
I always have her by my side.
At least it should be.
The thing is, there's something
irresistible about her.
I find myself wanting
to protect her, I suppose.
[AISHA] I'm an utter failure
as a bodyguard!
[ROROA]
Aisha, shake.
[AISHA]
Woof.
You're so adorable.
I feel like I want to
protect you, myself.
What? Not you, too.
[EXCEL] Lastly, we come
to Princess Liscia.
I should start off by
mentioning I asked the king
what was on his mind
when it comes to you.
Uh, that feels like a different
question from the rest.
[chuckles]
I believe his assessment
of you Princess Liscia
can be summarized by the
answer to that one inquiry.
When his Majesty answered,
he said just a single
word: "Nothing."
[LISCIA]
"Nothing"? At all?
He had something to say
about all the others,
didn't he?
And yet, when it came
to me, he drew a blank?
He did say more, which
should provide context:
"I want to personally tell
her about my feelings."
Quote.
[ROROA]
Not very fair.
Cia's the only one
he said that about.
[LISCIA]
Huh?
Of course she gets
special treatment.
I'm so jealous.
[LISCIA]
Ow!
C'mon ladies,
that really smarts!
Not you, too, Juna!
The truth is...
...I'm jealous of
the rest of you.
How come?
I really wanted to hear
how he liked such-and-such
about me.
Like how he didn't want
to lose me to anyone,
or how he wanted to
protect me, as well.
I guess that's just
the way things go.
From now on,
whenever we have a lesson,
why don't we gather
together around the table!
Oh, Ai, nice job herding us.
Of course!
All right.
Moving on, it's time
for specific instruction,
and to discuss the
different ways for you all
to maintain marital bliss.
What do you mean by "specific"?
[EXCEL]
As I said at the beginning,
we'd cover the
psychological aspects
and the performance of
one's nighttime services,
remember?
And I intend to teach
you exhaustively
about these subjects.
Excuse me, Grandmother,
but everything else aside,
are you sure it's necessary
for us to have to sit through
a lecture going over
techniques for these, uh,
rather private matters?
Yeah, no, I'm 100%
with Juna on this one.
It's gonna be way
too embarrassing.
It's got me kinda
curious, though.
Roroa?
Cia, you don't wanna know more?
Well, sure, I mean....
Heh! So, you are a
little curious, huh.
You can say it.
Goodness.
You sure you ladies want to
pass up a chance like this?
Because if you sit through
my lecture all the way
to the end, then as
proof of completion
I will give you
each one of these.
[LISCIA] Some kind of
classified documents?
[JUNA] Does that say
"burn after reading"?
[AISHA] Whatever's inside
sounds pretty dangerous.
[ROROA]
Must be state secrets.
That's right.
The "naked truth," as it were.
Contained here in these black
books are unspeakable things
His Majesty either
wants you to do to him
or he wants to do to you.
As well as the situations
in which to perform them.
In other words,
top national security secrets.
Oh.
Wait, what do you mean by that?
[EXCEL] While usually kept
locked within his heart,
his Majesty Souma's
desires for each of you
are laid bare
within these pages--
in incredible detail,
I might add.
Let's begin.
Our first lecture: "servicing."
[overlapping chatter]
[ALL yell]
[knocking]
[MARIA]
Come on in.
[JEANNE]
Pardon.
I'm here to make my report
concerning the slave traders.
So, the traders,
you have some news?
I do.
Similarly to Friedonia,
I would like to start a
system where they instead
work for the empire.
That's Souma for
you, no surprise.
Avoid a war by turning
all the slave traders
into public servants.
Meanwhile the slaves receive
a high-quality education.
That couldn't have
been easy to think up.
It wasn't Souma.
I heard a slave trader
in town came up
with the idea.
My!
Seems like they are
blessed with an abundance
of talent.
Indeed, they are.
However, some slave traders
may not be sanctioned,
and then commit violent
acts like kidnapping.
It has happened in Friedonia.
We will have to keep
a careful watch for that.
Right.
I would like to bear
that in mind when
distributing certifications.
You have to wonder,
what kind of national
improvement is Souma
going to try and implement next?
If I know him, he's
imagining an even more
wonderful kingdom.
You certainly are taken
with His Majesty, sister.
Of course I am!
And yet, what Friedonia
attempts is ultimately
just for reference.
We have to do our
own building using
the rock-solid foundation
of our country.
A suggestion, if I may.
As their progress continues,
I should stay in
touch with Hakuya.
Yes. I think that's best.
So, how're things?
With Hakuya, I mean.
Th-There's nothing
going on between us!
[HAKUYA sneezes]
Pardon me, Your Majesty.
That's okay. Please continue.
[HAKUYA] The citizens' lives
have become more stable,
which in turn has allowed us
to build more residences.
That's terrific.
[HAKUYA]
Alas, there is a problem.
The trees surrounding
the capital have all been
cut down for the
purpose of lumber
and providing heat
for the winter.
Some areas are
nothing but sparse,
barren hills now.
Seems we need lumber stoppages.
Who would have guessed.
[HAKUYA]
Lumber stoppages?
Back where I'm from,
lumber was once an important
military resource.
To guard it, excess
logging was prohibited
on certain mountains.
It was so strict, they said
that felling a single tree
could cost you your head.
That seems a bit excessive.
[SOUMA]
Well, we won't go that far.
Also, redirect the
thinned timber from
the God-Protected Forest
to where it's needed.
As you wish, sire.
The refugees.
How're they and Komain?
Their relocation is
going quite smoothly.
And there are no
complaints with the housing.
The issue is with jobs.
While there are numerous
hunters among their people,
the truth is, not many
of them possess
what you would call
"marketable skills."
We can't have them making
nothing but weapons.
I see your point.
They may hunt prey,
but they can also make
woolen goods.
Let's put them to work
in the textile mill.
We have to invest
in the public sector more,
and not just find
ways of employing them.
[HAKUYA] Luckily, there are
some areas in Venetinova
that as of yet have
not been zoned.
We can develop the
facilities while providing
jobs for the refugees.
[SOUMA]
Go right ahead.
As long as we continue
on this course,
Venetinova will become
a center of trade.
But unless we raise the
level of education there,
they won't be able
to make ends meet.
At least not on industry alone.
I've thought as much and
have already discussed it
with Ginger.
Leave it to you, Hakuya.
Zero moss.
--[door opens]
--[PONCHO gasps]
It's done!
What's done, Poncho?
[PONCHO] Th-The thing Your
Majesty specially requested
I invent!
Really? Are you
talking about "it"?
[PONCHO]
Yes!
May I try?
I'd be honored if you
had a taste, sir, yes!
Is it decent?
You're a genius, Poncho!
There's no doubt this is a
sauce for flour-based dishes!
[PONCHO]
Yes!
If I may ask, what makes this
sauce particularly important?
Well, with this as a base,
we can make
yakisoba, okonomiyaki,
monjayaki, takoyaki!
It'll even work as a sauce
poured over fried foods!
How about a taste, Hakuya?
[HAKUYA] It has a fruity,
veggie flavor with spices
that entice the nose.
And yet it's unlike ordinary
Worcestershire sauce
in that it possesses a strong
sweet and sour flavor
with no shortage of taste.
Truly, it is unlike any
sauce I've had before!
I admit, even I'm
surprised you reproduced it,
considering how you've
never even tried it.
Thank you for your generous
heaps of praise, yes!
Still, just what did you use?
Certain tastes
are familiar to me.
[PONCHO] I'm impressed by
your palate, Your Majesty.
Allow me to explain.
It's a mixture of
various ingredients.
First I combined Worcestershire
and tomato sauce,
then added a little bit
of soy sauce and mirin
from Kikkoro Distillery, yes.
A question.
Are we able to mass-produce
this new sauce?
I spoke with Kikkoro Distillery,
and they're willing
to take it on, yes.
[HAKUYA]
Your Majesty.
I just had a thought.
What if we took food
that uses this flour-based
dish sauce and made
it a specialty dish
that you can only
get in Venetinova?
Which in turn would
create new jobs!
But we cannot let
Venetinova have a monopoly
over this sauce!
However, since
they're a gulf city,
they can make squid yakisoba!
This is the dawn of
a Venetinova delicacy!
People will come from all over!
Squid yakisoba?
I have to be the first
in line to try some!
My mouth's watering just
from imagining it, yes!
[SOUMA] This sure has
been a turbulent year.
Yes, you said it.
[SOUMA] I had the throne
relinquished to me on
April 32nd, and before you know
it, another year has passed.
[LISCIA]
And tomorrow is December 32nd.
The last eight months
felt like they went by
in the blink of an eye.
Liscia, is something wrong?
Wrong?! What could be wrong?
Nothing! That's what!
Open. Say "ahh."
I've always wanted more
moments just like this.
You know, beneath the kotatsu,
keeping warm,
while doing nothing.
Sounds terrific, huh?
[LISCIA]
Here. Say "ahh."
It's nice taking
a break for once.
True. Hopefully it stays
like this for a long while.
Yeah, you said it.
[knocking]
[SOUMA] Then, as soon as we
say it's nice doing nothing...
Yes?
[door opens]
[CARLA]
I have a message from Albert.
Tomorrow, the evening
of December 32nd,
he would like to meet
with Your Majesty.
Finally.
Wait, my father?
Souma, I'm coming, too.
His Majesty is to attend alone.
Albert was specific.